# Bio-Inspired Computing

The main objectives for the Bio-Inspired Computing is to develop computational models and algorithms inspired from natural intelligence found in physical, chemical, social and biological systems, and to solve practical problems arising from various engineering fields related to health, security, energy efficiency and environment, such as bioengineering and bioinformatics, industrial engineering, and software engineering.

Nature presents the best example of how to solve problems efficiently and effectively. Bio-Inspired computing methods attempt to create computational methods for addressing challenging problems by transferring knowledge from natural systems to engineered systems. These methods investigate in computational environments natural intelligent systems at different levels, ranging from populations and societies, to nervous systems and brains, and to genes, proteins and metabolites. Methods of particular interest are neural information processing in the brain and the organizing principles of neural development from the evolutionary perspective. Examples of engineering applications include image processing and mining, information retrieval and knowledge extraction, modelling and analysis of genetic and metabolic networks for drug design and disease analysis, aerodynamic structure design, multi-criterion optimization and decision-making, and self-organization of collective systems.

## Evolutionary Developmental Approach to Artificial Intelligence

While most current artificial intelligent (AI) systems heavily rely on big data to accomplish a single task, the human brain is capable of learning multiple tasks on small data. Disentangling the working mechanisms and principles behind the self-organization of biological nervous systems may provide insights into effectively simulating brain functions.
